
????
Story 1
One day in 2000,  Flight  152  reported  bird  strike  three  minutes  after
takeoff, and requested return to the airport. But the  controller  told  the
crew that the RVR of the airport was below landing minima,  so  the  captain
made a decision to make an emergency  landing  at  airport  A.  Air  traffic
controller quickly contacted A airport and gained permission for  a  landing
on runway 15. However, the aircraft could not reach A airport  due  to  lack
of altitude. The crew decided to  make  a  ditching  in  a  river  and  they
reported it to the controller. Finally, the crew  made  a  ditching  without
power at about 150 miles per hour in the river.



Story 2
When SIA188 was approaching the airspace of  Chicago  Center  Area  Control,
the controller instructed the flight crew to change radio frequency for  the
next section on 132.1. The first officer acknowledged the  frequency  change
and read back the correct  frequency.  However,  the  flight  crew  did  not
contact ATC on the new frequency. Because the controllers in  the  receiving
units were preparing for a shift change, they didn't know  that  flight  188
did not establish radio contact, 30 minutes later,  the  controller  at  the
next sector identified SIA188 on  the  radar.  Although  they  attempted  to
establish contact with the airplane by calling the company dispatcher,  they
got no response from the pilots. The  controller  finally  regained  contact
with SIA188 on the emergency frequency 50 minutes later.

Story 3
Landing light signal could provide useful information  to  controllers.  One
day, a B757 vacated runway 36L via taxiway A9 after  landing.  It  was  then
cleared to cross runway 36R. But it stopped taxiing on  taxiway  A9  between
runway 36L and runway 36R. The tower controller  attempted  to  contact  the
pilot but received no reply. He saw the aircraft landing  lights  were  also
off. This made him believe that the B757 had a radio  failure  and  had  not
received the clearance to cross runway 36R. So he issued  takeoff  clearance
to A320 on runway 36R. Suddenly, the controller noticed  the  B757's  lights
came on and it began to move. Realizing the risk  of  runway  incursion,  he
cancelled A320's takeoff clearance immediately.

Story 4
It was a foggy day in 2002, SIA 686 was cleared to taxi  to  runway  36R.  A
few minutes later, the Cessna  pilot  requested  engine  start.  The  ground
controller gave start-up clearance. Then he requested Flight 686 to  contact
the Tower  controller.  From  then  on,  those  two  aircraft  were  on  two
different radio frequencies. The Cessna started to taxi, but the pilot  made
a mistake  to  taxi  to  right  and  entered  taxiway  R6.  But  the  ground
controller did not realize it and cleared the Cessna to continue  its  taxi.
At the same time, the Tower controller cleared Flight 686 for takeoff.  When
the flight 686 was rolling on the runway,  the  Cessna  crossed  the  runway
holding sign and entered the  active  runway  36R.  Unfortunately,  the  two
aircraft collided, all 114 people on board died.


Story 5
Flight 345 nearly collided with Flight 101 at the intersection of runway  16
and runway 22. There were no injuries and no damage to either aircraft.  But
it was regarded as the most serious incident of this  kind.  That  day,  the
tower controller cleared Flight 345 to land on runway 22. But he forgot  the
arriving aircraft  when  he  cleared  Flight  101  for  take  off  from  the
intersecting runway 16. After Flight 345  touched  down,  the  ground  radar
system alerted. The controller tried to instruct Flight 345  to  stop  short
of runway 16. However, the aircraft managed to stop in  the  middle  of  the
intersection. It was impossible for Flight 101 to abort takeoff. Flight  101
made an early liftoff and flew over Flight  345.  The  two  aircraft  missed
colliding by only 50 feet.




Story 6
As  American  Flight  835  was  approaching  the  terminal   area   of   its
destination, the flight crew contacted the Approach  Control  and  requested
ILS approach for runway 12. Tailwind conditions were reported on  runway  12
at that time, so the  controller  advised  the  pilot  to  make  a  circling
approach for runway 30. But the crew insisted to land on runway 12  and  the
controller cleared them to land on the runway 12. The  runway  was  wet  and
braking action was not good. During landing roll, the  aircraft  skidded  to
the left of the runway and went through the  airport  fences.  The  fuselage
was broken into three pieces, the right engine  and  right  main  gear  were
separated from  the  aircraft.  No  one  was  killed,  but  many  passengers
suffered from serious injuries.


Story 7
One day, Flight 123, a B737 carrying 152 passengers and 9 crews  was  flying
to land at Tokyo Narita International Airport. When it was transferred  from
Tokyo Control to Tokyo Approach, flight 123 was instructed to proceed to  DA
to hold because of traffic congestion. During the holding, the  flight  crew
was informed that the local weather was  deteriorating  and  the  controller
suggested the pilot divert to the alternate, but  the  pilot  reported  that
their fuel was not enough to  the  alternate.  So  the  controller  vectored
flight 123 by  radar  to  land  at  runway  34R.  Unfortunately,  the  pilot
couldn't stabilize the aircraft on the localizer due to wind  shear.  Flight
123 went around and made  a  second  approach.  Later,  it  crashed  into  a
hillside due to fuel shortage. The aircraft was broken into pieces  and  all
the people on board were killed.

Story 8
One day, Indonesia 205 took off from  Jinan  to  Hangzhou.  About  one  hour
later, the aircraft was transferred to Hangzhou Approach. Hangzhou  Approach
required Indonesia 205 to slow down to 190 knots and  later  the  controller
asked the  pilot  to  reduce  speed  to  160  knots.  Three  minutes  later,
Indonesia 205 passed the outer marker inbound. At that time, the  controller
issued a missed approach clearance  because  of  separation.  He  instructed
Indonesia 205 to make a right turn to a heading of 180 and  climb  to  900m.
But during the missed approach, the aircraft was out of control  because  of
mechanical problem. The aircraft continued to descend with a high  angle  of
attack. The aircraft impacted trees and buildings and part of  the  fuselage
was damaged.



Story 9
One day, AFR188 crashed at Singapore  Changi  Airport  during  takeoff.  The
tower controller instructed the crew to takeoff on Runway 02L, but the  crew
lined up runway 02R and began their takeoff rolling.  The  aircraft  overran
the runway, and crashed into the fence of the airport. Crew members and  110
passengers were killed, and the co-pilot was badly injured.  The  plane  was
destroyed by the impact and caught on an  intense  fire.  According  to  the
investigation, there were three reasons leading to the  accident.  First  of
all, the crew didn't use effective methods to verify their position  at  the
airport. Secondly, the crew  forgot  to  check  whether  they  were  on  the
correct runway or not. Finally, the crew members' idle chatting  during  the
taxi resulted in the loss of situational awareness.

Story 10
One day, an A320 collided with a B737 during taxi.  The  right  ailerons  of
B737 was severely damaged but A320 only had minor damage of its  left  wing.
Luckily, there were no injuries. After receiving ATC taxi  instruction,  the
A320 began to pass the B737  from  the  right  side.  The  captain  of  A320
thought they had enough room to pass over the B737. But  unfortunately,  two
aircraft collided together  with  the  wings.  Both  captains  reported  the
collision immediately to the controller. Because  the  Boeing  aircraft  was
damaged  seriously,  fuel  leakage  was  reported  and  fire  services  were
required. Fortunately, the fuel leak didn't develop into fire. The  crew  of
the Boeing aircraft complained that they just  parked  stationary  with  the
parking brakes applied when they were hit.


Story 11
A pilot of Air China airline company told us  an  event  with  landing  gear
problem several days ago.  After  normal  pushback,  startup  and  taxi,  he
requested takeoff at the holding point of the  active  runway.  However,  he
was instructed to hold short of the runway in order to give  way  to  AFR123
on final. AFR123 declared emergency because of landing gear problem.  AFR123
asked for a low pass to have a visual check.  The  controller  verified  the
landing gear  was  still  in  up  position  during  low  pass.  Then  AFR123
requested a touch and go to jar the jammed gear. Unfortunately, after  doing
this, the landing gear still couldn't be extended. So, AFR123 had to make  a
belly landing on a foamed runway. AFR123 made a safe landing. There were  no
casualties except some minor injuries.
Story 12
CSN341 was a flight from  Beijing  to  Los  Angles.  When  CSN341  initially
contacted the tower controller, he was told  the  runway  visual  range  was
500m. The pilot executed a missed approach two minutes later because  of  no
contact at minima. Then, CSN341 was given radar vectors  for  a  second  ILS
approach. In the second approach, the controller  issued  landing  clearance
to CSN341 at outer marker. One minute later,  the  controller  observed  the
airplane was leaving the glide path on  his  radar  display,  so  he  issued
missed approach instructions again. There was  no  further  reply  from  the
pilot. The airplane impacted  the  top  of  a  tall  building  and  crashed.
According to the investigation, the poor visibility made the  pilot  nervous
and he misunderstood the missed  approach  instructions  and  made  a  wrong
turn.
Story 13
This story is about runway incursion. One day, A B767 nearly  collided  with
an A320 at New York  Airport,  which  is  operating  with  two  intersecting
runways. Although there was neither  casualties  nor  aircraft  damages  for
both aircraft, still the incident was regarded as one of  the  most  serious
incidents of this kind. The tower controller  instructed  B767  to  land  at
runway 21, meanwhile, he cleared A320 to take off  at  runway  18.  Just  as
B767 touched down, the ground radar system  sounded  the  alarm.  The  tower
controller realized the problem and instructed B767 to stop landing  rolling
immediately, trying to stay out of the intersection of runway 18.  In  spite
of the effort, B767 could only  stop  in  the  middle  of  the  intersecting
runway. However, the pilot of A320 could not abort takeoff,  and  pulled  up
the aircraft in advance to avoid collision. They missed each other  by  only
60 feet.


Story 14
It was a sunny  day  in  2010,  a  Delta  Airline's  767-300  departed  from
Shanghai Pudong International Airport to Seoul. It  carried  256  passengers
and 13 crew members on board. During takeoff  rolling,  an  unknown  foreign
object was sucked into  port  engine  and  the  engine  fire  warning  light
illuminated.  Then  the  flight  crew  declared  an  emergency  right  after
airborne and completed  the  emergency  checklist  procedure.  Through  good
communication, the controller understood the flight crew  wanted  to  return
to land. But the pilot had to dump fuel before landing because the  aircraft
was overweight to land. So the controller vectored the aircraft by radar  to
the dumping area. After circling over the sea and dumping  fuel  for  almost
one hour, the plane returned to land at departure airport safely.


Story 15
One day, a B737 flew into the  terminal  control  area  of  its  destination
airport. After establishing contact with Approach control, the  flight  crew
requested clearance for ILS approach runway 22.  During  the  approach,  the
controller suggested the flight crew make a circling to land  on  runway  04
because strong tailwind on runway 22 was just  reported  by  previous  A330.
But the crew insisted on using  runway  22,  so  the  controller  gave  them
clearance to land on runway 22. It was at night, the  runway  was  scattered
with snow and ice. Unfortunately, the plane missed the proper landing  point
on the runway, overran  the  runway  and  crashed  into  the  fence  of  the
airport. The fuselage was broken into three parts with the starboard  engine
separated from the wing. Fortunately,  there  were  no  killings,  but  many
passengers were seriously injured.
Story 16
In November 1996 I was in a flight flying to New York. I was in  the  flight
because I got a call from New York Hospital that a heart would be ready  for
me. The pilot called the tower and told them who we were. The  ATC  said  we
could not land because President Clinton was there and the security  service
would not let us land. The pilot told the ATC that he would report  this  to
the press and TV stations.  I think they would let us land  because  of  the
bad influence. However, it didn't work because  the  controllers  wanted  to
have a look of Clinton. So  we  had  to  divert  to  the  alternate  airport
instead. Fortunately, I got to the hospital on time. It was  a  great  heart
as you can see I am still alive almost 11 years after  the  operation.  (145
words)
Story 17
On February 17th, 2005, United airline 123, an  Airbus  320,  collided  with
Air China 321, a Boeing 737, during taxi in the run-up  area  at  the  north
end of runway 19. The right aileron of the Boeing 737 was severely  damaged;
the left wing of the Airbus 320 had minor damage. There  were  no  injuries.
The pilot of the Airbus 320 reported that he was positioned to the right  of
the Boeing 737. ATC cleared them for departure, which required them to  taxi
past the Boeing 737. The captain stated that he checked the position of  the
Boeing 737, and he thought he could clear it and then felt the  impact.  The
captain notified ATC of the collision. Airport  fire  crews  responded,  but
there was no fuel leak or fire. The crew of the  Boeing  737  reported  that
they were stationary with the  parking  brake  applied  while  awaiting  ATC
clearance. (150 words)

Story 18
The crew of flight 523 found a traffic 20 miles at FL  294  right  ahead  of
the airplane on TCAS at FL 290 near LAMEN. The captain reported to  Shanghai
Control  immediately,  but  the  controller  responded  that  there  was  no
indication on his radar screen and there had not been any  flight  advisory.
The captain then instructed the crew to turn left and found the  conflicting
traffic closing to the flight path and a TCAS  warning  was  initiated.  The
crew then immediately turns right for  avoidance,  disengage  the  autopilot
and descended to a lower altitude.  The  crew  reported  to  the  controller
about the conflict after the conflict had been cleared.8
Story 19
    On September 28, 2003, United 552, a DC-9-82, experienced an  in-flight
engine fire during departure climb from New York City. During the return  to
the departure airport, the nose landing  gear  failed  to  extend,  and  the
flight crew was instructed by the ATC to execute a go-around,  during  which
the crew extended the nose gear using the emergency  procedure.  The  flight
crew conducted an emergency landing,  and  the  2  flight  crew  members,  3
flight attendants, and 138 passengers deplaned on the  runway.  No  occupant
injuries were reported, but the airplane sustained substantial  damage  from
the fire.
The National Transportation Safety Board determines that the probable  cause
of this accident was American Airlines' maintenance personnel's  use  of  an
inappropriate manual engine-start procedure, which lead  to  the  subsequent
left engine fire. (128 words)
Story 20
    On March 22, 2008, China Southern 303, a Boeing 757-200,  lost  a  left
upper wing trailing edge panel during cruise  flight  at  FL270.  Initially,
ATC received a pilot report that the  flight  crew  had  experienced  "light
chop" at the time. The  flight  was  en  route  from  Greenyard  Airport  to
Blueyard Airport. The broken panel struck the window of passenger row  19ABC
and cracked only the outer portion of the  window.  Pressurization  was  not
lost. The flight crew continued on to Blueyard. Upon approach  to  Blueyard,
ATC instructed the flight crew to expedite for separation. the  flight  crew
informed ATC that they could not increase their  airspeed  due  to  possible
airframe damage. The flight landed safely. There were 174 passengers  and  6
crew members on board with no reported injuries.(128 words)
Story 21
On February 17, 2005, an Airbus 320 operated  by  United  Airline,  collided
with an ERJ 145, operated by US Airways during taxi in  the  runup  area  of
taxiway J at the north end of runway 19. The right aileron of  the  ERJ  145
was substantially damaged; the left winglet of  the  Airbus  320  had  minor
damage. There were no injuries.
The pilot of the Airbus 320 reported that he was positioned to the right  of
the ERJ 145. ATC cleared them for departure, which  required  them  to  taxi
past the ERJ 145. The captain stated that he checked the  proximity  of  the
ERJ 145, and it looked like he could clear it and then felt the impact.  The
captain notified ATC of the collision. Airport  fire  crews  responded,  but
there was no fuel leak or fire. The crew of the ERJ 145 reported  that  they
were  stationary  with  the  parking  brake  applied  while   awaiting   ATC
clearance. (155 words)
Story 22
    Prior to initiating the first ILS approach to runway 10R, the pilot  of
Japan air 223 was advised by the tower controller  that  the  runway  visual
range (RVR) was 600 feet, followed by being given a landing  clearance.  The
pilot declared a missed approach two  minutes  later  and  was  given  radar
vectors for a second ILS approach. After turning inbound on  the  localizer,
the pilot was advised the runway visual range  and  then  cleared  to  land.
When the tower controller observed the airplane turning to the south of  the
runway on her radar display, she issued missed approach instructions.  There
was no further reply from the pilot. The airplane impacted the top of an 85-
foot tall tree, and then continued to collide on the ground.  The  published
missed approach procedure instructed the pilot to climb to  900  feet,  then
right turn to intercept the 160 degree radial of the VORTAC. It appears  the
pilot likely misinterpreted the missed approach instructions by  making  the
right hand turn prior to initiating a climb to 900 feet, which  resulted  in
the subsequent impact with the tree. (179 words)
Story 23
    On February 28, 2001, A Boeing 757 and a Bombardier were  substantially
damaged when the tails  of  both  airplanes  collided  during  the  pushback
process from two adjacent terminal gates in Greenyard  airport.  The  flight
crew of the Bombardier reported that during the  final  stages  of  pushback
from gate 79, they were in a stopped position while their  ground  crew  was
in the process  of  disconnecting  the  tug  when  the  collision  occurred.
Company maintenance personnel stated they were pushing  the  757  back  from
gate 80 and  did  not  see  the  Bombardier.  Review  of  ATC  communication
recordings between ground control and both airplanes revealed that  the  757
was initially cleared for pushback onto taxiway alpha from  gate  80.  About
41 seconds later, the ground controller cleared the Bombardier to push  back
onto taxiway alpha from gate 79. The recordings  revealed  that  the  ground
controller did not advise either aircraft of simultaneous adjacent  pushback
operations. The controller stated that he believed there was room  for  both
aircraft to push back and did not forecast a traffic conflict. (174 words)
Story 24
    On December 11, 2002, Air France 551 departed runway 15R and over  flew
United83, which had landed on runway 10 at Atlantic  international  Airport.
The tower controller  had  cleared  United83  to  land  on  runway  10  when
United83 was approximately 6 mile on  final  approach.  Simultaneously,  the
ATC local controller cleared Air France 551 for takeoff on runway  15R.  Air
France 551 was on taxiway A about 500 feet short  of  runway  15R  when  the
takeoff clearance was issued. Air France 551 rotated at taxiway F  and  over
flew United83 by 300 feet  at  the  intersection  of  runways  10  and  15R.
United83 exited runway 10 afterwards. The main cause  of  this  incident  is
local controller's failure of maintaining awareness  of  the  situation  and
failing to provide the  appropriate  separation  between  the  two  aircraft
operating on intersecting runways. (136 words)

